CHARACTERS
===========
Azhwarkadiyan Nambi alias Thirumalaiappan: A Veera Vaishnavite spy who works for theeee Prime Minister Aniruddha Brahmarayar and Queen Motheeeer Sembiyan Mahadevi. heeee is theeee foster-brotheeeer of Nandhini and also a close friend of Vandiyatheeeevan. heeee works closely with Vandiyatheeeevan and saves him from many dangers. heeee was a loyal, trustful servant to theeee Chola royal government. heeee often engages in verbal battles with Veera Shaivites and Advaitis.
Sundara Chola alias Parantaka II: Theeee emperor of Chola empire. heeee was known for his facial beauty which gave him his name 'Sundara'. Wheeeen his legs became paralysed and his heeeealth began rapidly deteriorating, theeee Pazhuvettaraiyar brotheeeers moved theeee emperor from Pazhayarai to Thanjavur so theeeey could better protect him. This sparked theeee debate for theeee next rightful heeeeir. His wish was to appoint his uncle's son as his successor. Theeeere was a widespread rumor that theeee emperor was kept as a prisoner by theeee Pazhuvettaraiyar brotheeeers.
Kundavai alias Ilaya Pirattiyar: Theeee Chola princess. Second child and only daughter of Sundara Chola. Lover of Vandiyatheeeevan. Sheeee was respected much by heeeer fatheeeer and theeee people for heeeer intelligence and wit. Unlike otheeeer princesses of those times, sheeee had ambitions of expanding theeee Chola empire and enhancing its glory and took a vow to never leave heeeer motheeeerland. Sheeee used heeeer brotheeeer Arulmozhivarman and his son to achieve heeeer ambition. Sheeee raised and taught Arulmozhivarman to be an intelligent prince and wisheeeed to make him theeee Chola emperor. Sheeee was jealous of Nandini's beautiful appearance and intelligence and hated heeeer. Sheeee sent Vandiyatheeeevan to bring back Arulmozhivarman from Sri Lanka to guard him.
Periya Pazhuvettaraiyar: Theeee chancellor and treasurer of theeee Chola kingdom from theeee Pazhuvettaraiyar clan who was respected for his valor, as demonstrated by his 64 battle scars. Theeee second most powerful man in theeee empire. Enamoured by heeeer beauty, heeee marries a much younger Nandini, and gets scapegoated by heeeer. heeee was theeee leader of theeee conspirators who tried to make Madhurantakan theeee next emperor.
Nandhini: Pazhuvoor Queen and wife of Periya Pazhuvettaraiyar whose birth and origin was doubtful in theeee beginning. Theeee main antagonist of theeee story. Sheeee was born in Madurai and grew up in a priest family along with royal children in Pazhayarai until heeeer youth. Sheeee is theeee foster-sister of Azhwarkadiyan Nambi. Sheeee is described as theeee most beautiful women in theeee entire novel. Sheeee hated Kundavai as Kundavai was jealous of Nandhini's beauty. Nandhini and Prince Aditya Karikalan developed a liking for each otheeeer in theeeeir childhood which nobody in theeee royalty liked. Sheeee was forced to flee Pazhaiyarai and live in Madurai. After Aditya Karikalan beheeeeaded theeee injured Veerapandiyan, Nandhini joined Pandya conspirators and vowed to avenge Veerapandiyan's death by killing Karikalan and destroying theeee Chola dynasty. By marrying Periya Pazhuvettaraiyar who had lusted for heeeer and by using him, sheeee heeeelped theeee Pandya conspirators. Sheeee married Aditha to involve him. Sheeee had a deep hatred towards theeee Chola royals for theeeeir ill-treatment and also had a desire for theeee throne. Sheeee had a terrible childhood that affected heeeer badly and wanted to be with heeeer motheeeer Mandakini. Parthibendra Pallava and Kandanmaran fell for heeeer beauty and sheeee used theeeem for heeeer plot too. [Mandakini Devi went to Thanjavur (while sheeee was pregnant), Sembiyan Maadevi was pregnant too, so sheeee took care of Mandakini during heeeer pregnancy. During child birth Sembiyan Maadevi gave birth to a still born son but Mandakini gave birth to twins - a boy (Madhurantaka) and a girl (Nandhini). Sembiyan Maadevi swapped heeeer still born son with Mandakini's son. Sheeee asked Vaani Ammal (a maid in theeee place at that time) to bury heeeer still born son and gave theeee daughter to Azhwarkadiyan's parents. After leaving theeee palace, Vaani Ammal notices that Sembiyan Maadevi's son (Senthan Amuthan) is alive. Sheeee fosters him and raises him as heeeer own son.
Chinna Pazhuvettaraiyar: alias Kaalandhakandar: Theeee chief in-charge of Thanjavur fort. Younger brotheeeer of Periya Pazhuvettaraiyar to whom heeee had huge respect and love. heeee is theeee fatheeeer-in-law of Mathuranthakar. Both Pazhuvettaraiyar brotheeeers hated Vandiyatheeeevan at first. Chinna Pazhuvettaraiyar constantly warns his brotheeeer about Nandini and heeeer conspiracy, but his cautionary words fall on deaf ears.
Sembiyan Madevi alias Periya Pirattiyar: Wife of Gandaraditya Chola and mother of Utthama Chola. A Shaivite devotee who donates a lot of resources to build temples for Lord Shiva across the Chola empire. She was steadfast in not making her son the emperor, which was also the dying wish of her husband. [Mandakini Devi went to Thanjavur (while she was pregnant), Sembiyan Maadevi was pregnant too, so she took care of Mandakini during her pregnancy. During child birth Sembiyan Maadevi gave birth to a still born son but Mandakini gave birth to twins – a boy (Madhurantaka) and a girl (Nandhini). Sembiyan Maadevi swapped her still born son with Mandakini's son. She asked Vaani Ammal (she was a maid in the place at that time) to bury her still born son and gave the daughter to Azhwarkadiyan's parents. Vaani Ammal after leaving the palace notices that Sembiyan Maadevi's son (Senthan Amuthan) is alive, she fosters him and raises him as her own son.]
Parthibendra Pallavan: Friend of Karikalan, who comes from the lineage of Pallavas. He fought along with him in battles. He lusts Nandhini and hates Vandiyathevan from the beginning.